W 12085119 ingress class gr (#268)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-gateway-k8-ingress-class.adoc

= Configure Flex Gateway as an Ingress Controller in Local Mode
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> For Kubernetes deployments in Local Mode, Flex Gateway typically acts as an ingress controller that manages external access to your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Kubernetes deployments in Local Mode, Flex Gateway acts as an ingress controller that manages external access to your Kubernetes cluster.
```
Doesn't it always act as an ingress controller in Local Mode, not just typically?

Reviewer 2: it does

Author: After talking with Sebastián, I think typically is still the right term.

Reviewer: @glenn-rodgers-sf I'm confused. "Typically" implies there are _some_ instances when Flex in Local Mode does _not_ act like an ingress controller. It seems binary: either it acts like an ingress or it doesn't. I can see customers questioning the "typically". Perhaps I'm I misunderstanding something?

> To configure Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, you must configure an `IngressClass` resource and an `Ingress` resource. The `IngressClass` resource configures Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, and the `Ingress` resources configures the services Flex Gateway manages as an ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, you must configure an `IngressClass` resource and an `Ingress` resource. The `IngressClass` resource configures Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, and the `Ingress` resource configures the services Flex Gateway manages as an ingress controller.
```

> To configure Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, you must configure an `IngressClass` resource and an `Ingress` resource. The `IngressClass` resource configures Flex Gateway as an ingress controller, and the `Ingress` resources configures the services Flex Gateway manages as an ingress controller.

Reviewer 2: 1. I'm not sure about this first sentence, I feel like it gives out the idea that the customer must do something outside of the install for this to work, ingress class is automatically created.
2. You don't need ingress resources as part of your config, once you have flex installed and good to go, it consumes ingress resources, as it could consume api instances for example.

Maybe something like
`Flex gateway configures itself as an IngressClass by default. It processes Ingress resources that are pointing to flex's IngressClass, acting as an ingress controller.`

> By default, Flex Gateways deployed on Kubernetes in Local Mode are defined as `IngressClass` resources.

Reviewer 2: `Flex gateway configures itself as an IngressClass by default`. Maybe merge this paragraph with the one above.

For a detailed explanation of Kubernetes `IngressClass` resources and `Ingress` resources, see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[Kubernetes Ingress^].

== Before You Begin

Register a Flex Gateway instance in Local Mode and deploy this instance to a Kubernetes cluster. For guidance, see xref:flex-gateway-set-up.adoc[] or xref:flex-gateway-k8-getting-started.adoc[].

== Ingress Class Parameters

> The Helm chart includes the following `IngressClass` parameters configured with the following values by default:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Helm chart includes the following default `IngressClass` parameters and values:
```
Reduced some wordiness

[source,helm]
----
ingressClass.enabled: true
ingressClass.name: "{releaseName}-{namespace}"
ingressClass.setAsDefault: false
----

[cols="1,2,2"]
|===
| Parameter | Description | Possible values
| `ingressClass.enabled` | Enables Flex Gateway as an `IngressClass` resource | `true` or `false`
| `ingressClass.name` | The name of the `IngressClass` | Any string
| `ingressClass.setAsDefault` | Sets Flex Gateway as the default `IngressClass` | `true` or `false`
|===

Setting `ingressClass.setAsDefault: true` defines the Flex Gateway instance as the default `IngressClass` resource for the cluster. The default `IngressClass` is the default ingress controller for all `Ingress` resources you create in the cluster. 

> If there is no default `IngressClass` or you do not want the default `IngressClass` resource as the controller for a specific resource, you must manually define the `IngressClassName` parameter in the `Ingress` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no default `IngressClass`, or if the default `IngressClass` resource shouldn't be the controller for a specific resource, you must manually define the `IngressClassName` parameter in the `Ingress` resource.
```
Reduced some wordiness

You can modify the default `IngressClass` parameters during or after the initial installation of the Helm chart. For more information about how to modify a Helm chart, see xref:flex-gateway-k8-change-helm-settings.adoc[]

== Creating Ingress Resources

> After you xref:flex-local-reg-run-up#install-helm-chart-into-the-namespace[install a Helm chart into a namespace], you can confirm your new `IngressClass` resource is present by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you xref:flex-local-reg-run-up#install-helm-chart-into-the-namespace[install a Helm chart into a namespace], you can verify your new `IngressClass` resource by running the following command:
```

[source,helm]
----
kubectl get ingressclasses
----

> If your `IngressClass` resource is present, to create an ingress routing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an ingress routing:
```
I'm thinking it's implied that they should do this after verifying the resource is present?

. xref:flex-gateway-apis-local.adoc[Publish an API].
. Define the new API as a Kubernetes Service. +
For more information about Kubernetes Service definitions, see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#defining-a-service[Defining a Service^].

> . Create an `Ingress` resource to define routing rules between the `IngressClass` Flex Gateway  and the new Kubernetes Service. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `Ingress` resource to define routing rules between the `IngressClass` Flex Gateway and the new Kubernetes Service. +
```
Just some whitespace
